<h1>February 22nd, 2021</h1>

<h2>TIL: </h2>

<h3> HTML</h3>
<h4>
Today we started the course on CSS and HTML
Reviewed the history of HTML5 & CSS3 along with its history of its predecessors.
    - SGML--> XML --> XTML
    - CSS level 1 (limited) --> CSS level 2.1(popularized) --> CSS 3 (not currently a level but various modules are being developed)
    - note to self: HTML 5 and CSS3 are more product names than different versions of previous software.

The most distinguished feature that differentiated HTML5 was its API and markup compontents that changed drastically from its predecessors.
RIA (Rich Internet Application) - look up later

It is important to understand the flow when creating Front End development.

Terminology:
Tag, Elements, Attribute(HTML/ additional info) vs property(CSS/innate info), Id (unique), class, DOM (document object model), CSSOM (CSS object model), SEO(Search Engine Optimization), 


TIP: Do not make it a habit to clone data! If you must clone data, try to find the fautls (pros/cons) of the cloned code and ammend accordingly to fully understand the code.

Emmet syntax:
- "+", "{}", "*", "$", "name.name", and ">"
- Try to find some more later!
<h4>


<h3>CSS </h3>

<h4>

- css.test.com : check how compatible the current browser is to different css modules
- w3c.org/ CSS : check out all the modules in development
- csszengarden.com : not updated nowadays but still kinda neat to see


Layout
- position: classic
- float: classic
- display: flex --> new trend but requires IE 11 or higher
- display: grid --> to see next class

float:
- box model
- width
- height
- passing
- border
- margin
- display

Terminology:
Block Formatting Context (BFC), normal flow, margin collapsing effect, Command "overflow: hidden"

</h4>


<h2>HW: </h2>

<h4>
- Research other ways that a parent class can react with the height of a floated child other than using overflow.
    - giving a fixed value straight from its child will create problems with processing data to the browser.
</h4>

