<h1> Python Class Hw </h1>


<h2> 1. HackerRank Class 2 "Find the Torsional Angle" Exercise </h2>

Given: You are given four points A, B, C, and D in a 3D Cartesian coordinate system. You are required to print the angle between the plane made by the points ABC and BCD in degrees. Let the ange be PHI. 
cos(PHI) = (X.Y)/|X||Y| where X = AB x BC and Y = BC x CD. 
X.Y is the dot product of X and Y, while AB x BC means the cross product of vectors AB and BC. Also, AB = B - A.

Find PHI.


-- mathematical proof  to be uploaded at a later date --



import math

class Points(object):
    def __init__(self, x, y, z):
        self.x=x
        self.y=y
        self.z=z

    def __sub__(self, other):
        return  Points((self.x-other.x),(self.y-other.y),(self.z-other.z))

    def dot(self, other):
        return (self.x*other.x)+(self.y*other.y)+(self.z*other.z)

    def cross(self, other):
        return Points((self.y*other.z-self.z*other.y),(self.z*other.x-self.x*other.z),(self.x*other.y-self.y*other.x))
        
    def absolute(self):
        return pow((self.x ** 2 + self.y ** 2 + self.z ** 2), 0.5)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    points = list()
    for i in range(4):
        a = list(map(float, input().split()))
        points.append(a)

    a, b, c, d = Points(*points[0]), Points(*points[1]), Points(*points[2]), Points(*points[3])
    x = (b - a).cross(c - b)
    y = (c - b).cross(d - c)
    angle = math.acos(x.dot(y) / (x.absolute() * y.absolute()))

    print("%.2f" % math.degrees(angle))





<h2> 2.Subway Question</h2>

Create a class system for a subway train.

Assumption: various data that is necessary to operate the subway train appropiatel (such as the location, speed and proximity of the next train, route, which door to open according to the route and so on) is stored and retrieved from a central network


Route: 내선순환, 외선순환, 성수지선, 신도림지선
/br
Characteristic: line2, route, distance from next train
/br
Method: Accelerate/Decelerate. Open/Close doors
/br



class Train:

	_route__inner = ("시청", "을지로 입구", "을지로 4가", etc... )
	_route__outer = _route__inner(::-1)
	_route__seongsu = ("성수", "용답", "신답", etc..... )
	_route__sindorim = ("신도림", "도림천", "양천구청", etc ......)
	_speed__max = 26 
	_speed__slow = 6
	_distance__nexttrain = train[1] - train[0]
	_distance__nextstation = station[1] - train[0]
		** need a way to update the index as train moves.

	def __init__(self, route, speed):
		self.route = route
	
	def accelerate(self):
		self.accelerate = _speed__max

	def deccelearate(self):
		if _ditance__nexttrain <= _distance__nextstation
			return speed = speed__slow

	def full_stop(self):
		if _distance__nexttrain<= 80 or _distance__next staion = 2

	def proximity_halt(self, next):
		if speed in range of proximity:
			speed =  _speed__slow
		** need to define proximity distance **
		Speed = 0 if self.proximity_stop < 0

	def door_open(self):
		while time = 16
		self.door_open = True
		return
	def door_close(self):
 		self.door_close = self.door_open(False)




