# Jan 19, 2021

## Lessons
Today was the beginning of the Python class, followed by orientation of the course, installation of the necessary programming languages(python), git, IEDs(VS code), and introduction to the very basics of computational thinking.

**Process of Computational Thinking**
1. Problem Formulation (abstraction)
2. Solution Expression (automation)
3. Solution Execution & Evaluation (analysis)


**Characteristics of Computational Thinking**
- Decomposition
- Pattern Recognition / data representation
- generalization / abstraction
- algorithms

## Python

Python is a computer language that was first developed by Guido van Rossum in 1989. It is nowadays used as an interpreter class oriented programming language that supports dynamic typing, and has a strict grammar. 

### Zen of Python
Summary: beautiful, explicit, simple>complex>complicated, flat, sparse, readability counts.

### Python Enhance Proposal(PEP)
- indent is 4 spaces or tab (do NOT mix)
- a line of code is 79 letters(120 nowdays)
- Class naming has two spaces apart
- Methods inside Classes have one space apart

### Naming Convention
- CamelCase: Class
- snake_case: Function, Variable, Methods
- NOT USED: chHungarianNotation, javaScriptStyleCamelCase

### Data Type
- int
- float
- long (0b, 0o, 0x)
- string
- boolean
- list, tuple, range
- set
- dictionary

### Operators
- arithmetic: +, -, *, /, %, //, **
- boolean: and, or, not
[python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#boolean-operations)
- comparisons: <,>,<=,>=, ==, !=(value), is, is not(object identity),&, |, ~(bitwise) => 1000(8), 1010(10)

### Floating point

0.1 + 0.2 != 0.3 // True
*why? because the computer does not have an exact value for floating numbers. Instead, it approximates it to its smallest possible identifiable unit( also called epsilon in JavaScript) which is to say that in adding two floating numbers, it does not equal what we logically deduce it should*

therefore: round(0.1+0.2, 1) == round(0.3, 1)

### Strings
Strings are like arrays in that they have indexes that can be called to be called on the inidividual character of that string. 
In **positive numbers**, the index numbers goes from **left to right**(first letter to the last), starting from 0.
In **negative numbers**, the index number goes from **right to left**(last letter to first letter), starting with -1.

```
some_string = "python"
len(some_string)
-----------------------------
some_string[3:5] = "ho"
some_string[1:5:2] = "yh"
some_string[::] = some_string[0:len(some_string):1]
some_string[::-1] = some_string[-1:-len(some_string):-1]
some_string[::-1] = "nohtyp"
```

However, **strings** are **immutable**. That is to say, you cannot reassign a character by calling upon its index value.
 
```
some_string = "python"
some_string[0] = "c"
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
TypeError: 'str' object does not support item assignment
>>> some_string = "c" + some_string[1:]
```
### Examples of Using Methods in Strings


```
func = "python is easy programming language"

func.count('p')

func.find('p')

comma = ","
func = comma.join('python')

func.split(',')
python_is_easy = "python is easy ..."
some_string.strip(".")
python_is_easy.split()

python_is_easy.replace("python", "golang")

```
### String Validators
- str.isalnum()
- str.isalpha()
- str.isdigit()
- str.islower()
- str.isupper()

### String Formatting

**Old Way**
```
 print("I have a %s, I have an %s." % ("pen","apple"))
```
- %s - string
- %c - character
- %d - integer(decimal)
- %f - floating point
- %o - octal
- %x - hexadeciamla
- %% - %


**New Way**
```
 print("I have a {}, I have an {}.".format("pen", "apple"))
 print("I have a {0}, I have an {1}.".format("pen", "apple"))
 print("I have a {0}, I have an {0}.".format("pen", "apple"))
```
**Padding and Align**

- {:10}
- {:>10}
- {:^10}
- {:_^10}


## Installing Python

- Mac OS
First: install brew(brew.sh) 

 ```
$ brew install python
```

[For a video reference](https://www.youtube.com/embed/AjGfUfW8njE)

- Windows

[For Windows](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.9.1/python-3.9.1-amd64.exe)

## Installing Jupyter Notebok

```
$ pip install jupyter
$ pip list
$ jupyter notebook
```

## Questions
### Q.
**Python is one of the few popular (user-base) programming languages that is widely said not to be based off of C. How does Python differ from other C related programming languages?**

Python has a much simpler syntax. As a high level interpreter language, it is easier for the human to understand Python than C, and thus makes it easier to learn. However, a compiler like C has the advantage of being much faster in its execution runtime. Also, C differs in how it handles data and memory. Almost anything in programming is a tradeoff! Although Python has better readability, it is at the cost of memory and execution speed!.



## To Do
- Find more data about python operators that were not discussed in class later on 
- Look at the documentation of string validators to see in depth how they function
- Look up string formatting on %f, %o, %x 